# The Constitutions of the Society of Jesus and Their Complementary Norms
A Complete English Translation of the Official Latin Texts

## FOREWORD

This foreword is meant to explain to the reader certain distinctive features of this complete English translation of the Jesuit Constitutions and their complementary norms.

The annotated Constitutions and their norms are the expression of the revised legislation particular to the Society of Jesus as a religious order in the Church. In his preface to this volume, Very Reverend Peter-Hans Kolvenbach, superior general of the Society of Jesus, states the reasons for such a revision of the particular legislation of the Society of Jesus and the way in which it has been accomplished. At the conclusion of the work of revision mandated by the Thirty-fourth General Congregation, its results were published in an official Latin version. That volume, in accord with the decisions of the congregation, comprises two sections. First is presented the "original Ignatian text" of the Constitutions of the Society along with notes appended to it by authority of the congregation. Those notes indicate which parts of the Constitutions general Church law or decisions of general congregations of the Society have abrogated, modified, or clarified over the course of time. The second section of the Latin text contains the norms complementary to the Constitutions. They express both the spirit of the Constitutions and the appropriate way in which those Constitutions are to be lived out in the contemporary renewal of our life and our apostolates. By decision of the congregation, these two parts of our law were in the future to be published in one and the same volume, "so that," as Father Kolvenbach says, "the living internal unity that exists between these two parts of our law might shine forth more clearly."

As a help toward displaying that internal unity, this English translation in CD-ROM format places, sequentially, the texts of the ten parts of the Constitutions and of the ten parts of the Complementary Norms corresponding to them. (So that the reader may more easily distinguish the Constitutions from the Norms, the latter are set in a different typeface from that used for the Constitutions, and are surrounded by a frame.)

For ease of reference, the text of the Constitutions includes the customary sequential paragraph numbers included within brackets ([]). The text of the norms has its own such numbers, unbracketed, at the beginning of paragraphs. Within the text of the Constitutions there are two sets of superscript numbers. One such set of superscript numbers (this one bracketed) always follows a sentence or clause and refers to the footnotes at the bottom of that page. The other set of superscript numbers (unbracketed) are "verse" numbers, placed at the beginning of sentences or at the beginning of major clauses within a sentence. Over the last several years these "verse" numbers have commonly been applied to similar sentences and clauses in new editions of the works of Saint Ignatius and to new vernacular translations. This allows the reader to refer to a particular place in any one of the works using reference numbers identical in almost all other editions or translations.

The preparation of this English translation has been an example of generous and wholehearted Jesuit collaboration. In this it imitates the way in which the original documents came into being. The delegates to the Thirty-first and Thirty-second General Congregations renewed the Society's law in accord with Vatican II. Members of the Jesuit Curia in Rome labored long and hard over many years to provide, in several preliminary drafts of annotated Constitutions and Complementary Norms, a formal structure for this renovation. Consultations with experts from around the world were part of this process. Province congregations convened before the Thirty-fourth General Congregation examined such drafts in detail. The members themselves of the Thirty-fourth Congregation in special commissions and in general sessions throughout the time of the congregation carefully considered every portion of the texts and their implications. After the final comprehensive vote on March 18, 1995, that formally put these texts into place in the life of the Society, many members of the Curia once again labored with dedication over a period of many months to prepare the definitive and official Latin text.

So, too, with this English-language volume. The basis for the English text of the Constitutions is the translation by George E. Ganss, S.J., originally published in 1971. This has been corrected, revised, and updated in the last several years, with a view to eventual publication, along with his commentary and cross-references, in the Institute of Jesuit Sources' two volumes of collected writings of Saint Ignatius (currently in preparation). A first-draft English translation of the Complementary Norms was prepared by Carl J. Moell, S.J., at that time resident in Rome serving as the assistant procurator general of the Society. George Ganss, John McCarthy, Martin O'Keefe, Martin Palmer, and Nicholas Pope, all members of the Society of Jesus associated with the Institute of Jesuit Sources, then entered into the lengthy and detailed preparation of this edition. They worked at everything from translating the comprehensive Latin index to scrutinizing and revising with editorial acumen each page of the translations of both Constitutions and Norms; from verifying footnotes to handcrafting virtually every page of the camera-ready copy; from proofreading the entire text to preparing for the worldwide distribution of copies of this volume.

John W. Padberg, S.J.
Director and General Editor
The Institute of Jesuit Sources

## PREFACE of Very Reverend Peter-Hans Kolvenbach, Superior General of the Society of Jesus

1. General Congregation 33 mandated that when our own law was being brought into conformity with the requirements of the new universal law of the Church regarding religious institutes (namely, the 1983 Code of Canon Law for the Latin Church and the 1993 Code of Canon Law of the Eastern Churches) we should see to it that the preparations for the complete revision of our own law, to be put into final form by the next general congregation, should be made with appropriate studious effort. For the Society had for some time regarded such a revision of our law as desirable; and studies for getting it ready had already been undertaken some years prior to this at the urging and under the leadership of Reverend Father Pedro Arrupe, although he himself was not able to see these brought to a conclusion.

2. Such a true and substantial renovation of its own law, required by the decree Perfectae Caritatis of Vatican Council II, and regulated by the moto proprio Ecclesiae Sanctae of Paul VI, the Society, for its part, had actually completed by means of General Congregations 31 (1965-66) and 32 (1974-75), which thoroughly adapted the Society's life and apostolate to the new needs of the times, while at the same time retaining a genuine fidelity to its proper character and original mission. None the less, the Society had not yet been able to give a formal, normative structure to the many decrees embodying this renovation and accommodation. And thus the pressing need to undertake such a task without delay.

3. After lengthy deliberation on the part of the Superior General with his consultors about the way for the Society to accomplish this revision most effectively, the following conclusions emerged:

a. First of all, it seemed good to make every effort to see that the Constitutions of St. Ignatius, an explication of the Formula of the Institute of the Society of Jesus as approved by the supreme pontiffs Paul III (1540) and Julius III (1550) and a privileged expression of the foundational spiritual and apostolic experience of the first companions, should occupy a central and real place in our law and, through that law, should serve to inspire and govern our entire present-day lives. Thus they had to be purged of elements that were obsolete or had been formally abrogated; and it had to be determined which points in them had in the course of time been modified or authentically interpreted. This was to be done, however, with the help of notes that a general congregation authoritatively appended to the original Ignatian text, without making any changes in the latter. Thus it was hoped that the Constitutions could recover their basic and fundamental inspirational and normative force for the life of the Society, without turning out to be a document that was purely spiritual and doctrinal, tied to ages past, and consequently out of tune with the times.

b. Those things that in the course of time had been decreed by subsequent general congregations and that seemed appropriate to retain in a modern renewal of our life and apostolate as a genuine and real expression of the spirit contained in the Constitutions should, once all unnecessary or obsolete elements had been removed, be reformulated and arranged according to the order of the Constitutions themselves, and should bear a permanent relationship to those Constitutions, as their "Complementary Norms," approved by a general congregation and alterable only by such a congregation.

c. Finally, so that the living internal unity that exists between these two parts of our law might shine forth more clearly and their ongoing spiritual identity might be more obvious, the two were, in future, to be published in one and the same volume. The hope, surely, was that the Society could have available an instrument that would be at once legal and spiritual in character, authentically Ignatian, one that could help the Society "to proceed ever better in the path of the divine service, according to the nature of our Institute."

4. This manner of proceeding all the provincials discussed at their congregation held in September 1990 at Loyola and approved by general consent, since experts had already prepared a sort of first draft of the project.

5. Consultation was then undertaken with experts from the worldwide Society, nominated by the provincials, in regard to this first draft of the schema. Their discussions generated very many suggestions, which were made available to (and, indeed, provided considerable help to) those who were preparing the new draft. This latter, completed at the beginning of 1993, was sent to the provinces, so that their province congregations could examine it and could send to the general congregation postulata, as well as all manner of related suggestions about the project.

6. Nearly all the provinces scrutinized the schema in one way or other and made known their thinking about it in a very positive fashion. They called for the completion of a revision along the lines of the proposed schema (albeit appropriately revised), so that the general congregation could approve it. Many provinces, however, at the same time, sent along postulata and comments of great import and of great usefulness, which contributed to the fact that a "Final Proposal," written by a special commission and incorporating clear improvements, could be offered for the consideration of the general congregation.

7. The task of revising our own law deeply occupied General Congregation 34. For, on the one hand, it reserved certain points of the "Final Proposal" for its own discussion and decision, those that seemed of greater moment. On the other hand, each commission took on the part of the "Final Proposal" that it was to consider, along with the material related to it. Finally, a special commission was set up and made aware of all the suggestions that had occurred to everyone (commissions and individuals alike); it prepared the text to be voted upon, and over the space of an entire month proposed it to the congregation for a final vote piece by piece. On March 18 the congregation took a final comprehensive vote, with the greatest consensus and the greatest joy in the Spirit. It thus brought to a happy conclusion work stretching out over several years, in which, in diverse fashion, virtually the entire Society had taken part.

8. Most gladly, then, my dearest brothers, do I now present to you our renewed Constitutions and their Complementary Norms, to be considered in your personal and communal prayer and to be observed in the spirit in which they have been written. Thus, with the help of God, may these, as Master Ignatius proposed, be "a certain path to him" in our enthusiastic following out of our mission in the Church, as "servants of the mission of Christ" under the leadership of the Roman Pontiff, for the greater praise and glory of Christ and for the good, the salvation, and the consolation of our fellow men and women, to whom we are sent in any region of the world whatsoever.

Rome, September 27, 1995
Peter-Hans Kolvenbach, S.J.
Superior General of the Society of Jesus
On the 455th anniversary of the papal approval of the Society of Jesus

## PREFACE TO THE FIRST EDITION OF THE CONSTITUTIONS TO THE BRETHREN OF THE SOCIETY OF JESUS

Dearly beloved in Christ, 
Here at last, beloved brothers in Christ Jesus, is what we have all been so eagerly longing and praying for our Society's Constitutions promulgated in their final form. Their appearance has been delayed longer than we had wished, but the reasons for this were both compelling and weighty; namely, that they might be drawn up with maturer deliberation and with greater devotion and care and, by being subjected to more prolonged trials, receive a form that would be more solid and enduring. In the Apostolic See's letters establishing and confirming the Society, authorization had been granted to enact Constitutions on the understanding that once enacted and approved by the Society they would automatically be considered as approved and confirmed by the authority of the Apostolic See. The Society was at that time scattered over the world and occupied with activities of great importance for faith and religion. Hence, it quite rightly entrusted its originator and founder, our Father Ignatius of holy memory, residing in Rome, with the task of writing and enacting the Constitutions.

Carefully, wisely, and religiously did he undertake and carry out this task that had been laid upon him, to the extent that he made it his chief concern for a number of years. With many tears, ardent prayers, and repeated Sacrifices of the Mass, he implored from the Lord. But our Father was a man of remarkable prudence and modesty. He realized that customs differed throughout the world, and that not all things were right for all places. He knew that, if the Society was to have everywhere a single hue and form, its Constitutions would have to be in the greatest possible agreement with all the practices of the provinces everywhere so as to enjoy permanent acceptance. Moreover, his estimation of himself was not so high that he was willing to rely in a matter of this magnitude exclusively upon his own way of proceeding or his own opinion and judgment.

Accordingly, during the Jubilee Year of 1550, he showed the Constitutions he had written to nearly all the surviving professed Fathers (who had come to Rome), and solicited their criticisms. Taking all these comments into account, along with various other points which had been turned up by day-to-day experience, he finally sent the Constitutions to Spain in 1553 for promulgation there. He also sent them to a limited number of other places. In addition, His Lordship Paul IV, by divine providence pope, submitted our Constitutions for examination to two most reverend cardinals, who returned them to us untouched, with not a word changed. Later, His Holiness gave his apostolic blessing not just to the congregation there present but to the entire body of the Society throughout the world, reconfirming and establishing by his apostolic authority all the favors, privileges, and indults granted us by his predecessors.

In view of all this, beloved brothers in Christ, we have no hesitation in presenting and publishing these Constitutions for your observance, backed as they are by such extensive deliberation and consensus. By authority of the most reverend vicar for Rome and of the master of the Sacred Palace, who have been placed in charge of the printing of books by the Supreme Pontiff, we present the Constitutions to you in printed form, thus obviating both the tiresome labor of making numerous copies by hand and the danger of errors creeping into such hand-copied texts. In this way we can ensure that the Constitutions reach you with greater ease and in a more correct form.

What need is there, brothers, for me to spur on and encourage men like yourselves already running of your own accord at full speed to the eager, perfect, and entire observance of these Constitutions? The grace of our vocation itself and our God-given decision to lead a holy life ought to be weighty motives once we have grasped the character of our profession and embraced it with our whole hearts for proceeding to fasten and weld this whole body together to be a dwelling for the heavenly Spirit and the grace of God, which is the real life of any religious order. Here we shall find the pattern we are to imitate, the way we are to pursue, the light we are to follow, the perfection towards which we are to aspire. Here we shall find the mirror in which to inspect our own lives. Beholding in the Constitutions the finished portrait of all virtue and perfection, each of us should do his best to present a living expression of it in his own holy manner of life.

Here each of us should eagerly seek out whatever applies to his own formation and to the fulfillment of the duties of his particular state. Here superiors ought to seek directives on how they should be an example to others; how they should govern those under them with conscientiousness and concern; how they should test the novices, educate the unlearned, strengthen the weak, and exercise the robust in sum, how by their word and example they should lead all forward to perfection. Here subjects should learn how to revere their superiors, loving them as fathers, respecting them as teachers, obeying them eagerly, trusting their advice, heeding their admonitions, and seeing in them Christ himself as the one who commands.

Finally, the Constitutions train us all for perfection, instructing us in the weapons to be used in combatting our three fierce and raging adversaries. They teach us how to counter the lust of the flesh with chastity, the lust of the eyes with poverty, and the pride of life with obedience. I shall say nothing of our observance of chastity (in which we should imitate the purity of the angels so far as our frailty allows), or of our observance of poverty (which is so strict that neither churches nor professed houses may acquire any rents, lands, or even perpetual endowments). As for obedience, however, by which we consecrate the chief and noblest part of ourselves to God, our Constitutions require of us that it be so prompt, eager, perfect, and integral that we do not swerve even a hairsbreadth from our superiors commands. In matters falling under obedience, not only must our action be guided by the superior's command and our will by his will, but even something much more difficult our understanding by his understanding. To sum up: men crucified to the world, and to whom the world itself is crucified such would our Constitutions have us to be; new men, I say, who have put off their affections to put on Christ; dead to themselves.

## I. FORMULAS OF THE INSTITUTE OF THE SOCIETY OF JESUS
Approved and Confirmed by POPES PAUL III AND JULIUS III

### PAUL III
Taken from the apostolic letter Regimini militantis Ecclesiae, dated September 27, 1540. As expressed there, the Formula describing the Institute of Ignatius and his companions reads as follows:

Whoever wishes to serve as a soldier of God beneath the banner of the cross in our Society, which we desire to be designated by the name of Jesus, and to serve the Lord alone and his vicar on earth, should keep in mind that once he has made a solemn vow of perpetual chastity he is a member of a community founded chiefly for this purpose: to strive especially for the progress of souls in Christian life and doctrine and for the propagation of the faith by the ministry of the word, by spiritual exercises and works of charity, and specifically by the education of children and unlettered persons in Christianity. He should further take care to keep always before his eyes first God, and the nature of this Institute which is his pathway to God; and let him strive with all his effort to achieve this end set before him by God each one, however, according to the grace which the Holy Spirit has given to him and according to the particular grade of his own vocation, lest anyone should perhaps show zeal, but a zeal which is not according to knowledge.

The selection of each one's grade as well as the entire distribution of employments shall be in the power of the superior or prelate who is to be elected by us, so that the proper order necessary in every well-organized community may be preserved. This superior, with the advice of his associates, shall possess in the council, where the majority of votes always has the right to prevail, the authority to establish constitutions leading to the achievement of this end which we have set for ourselves. In matters that are more serious and lasting, the council should be understood to be the greater part of the whole Society which can conveniently be summoned by the superior; but in matters less important and more temporary it will be all those who happen to be present in the place where our superior will reside. All right to execute and command, however, will be in the power of the superior.

All the members should know not only when they make their first profession but daily, as long as they live, that this entire Society and each one individually are campaigning for God under [the pope] and the other Roman Pontiffs who will succeed him. And although the Gospel teaches us, we know from orthodox faith, and we firmly profess that all the faithful in Christ are subject to the Roman Pontiff as to their head and the vicar of Jesus Christ, still, for the greater humility of our Society and the perfect mortification of each one of us and the abnegation of our own wills, we have judged that it is of the greatest profit to us to go beyond the ordinary obligations and bind ourselves by a special vow, so that whatever the present Roman Pontiff and others to come will wish to command us with regard to the progress of souls and the propagation of the faith, or wherever he may be pleased to send us to any regions whatsoever, we will obey at once, without subterfuge or excuse, as far as in us lies. We pledge to do this whether he sends us among the Turks or to other infidels, even to the land they call India, or to any heretics or schismatics, or to any of the faithful.

Therefore, those who will come to us should, before they take this burden upon their shoulders, ponder long and seriously, as the Lord has counseled, whether they possess among their resources enough spiritual capital to complete this tower; that is, whether the Holy Spirit who moves them is offering them so much grace that with his aid they have hope of bearing the weight of this vocation. Then, after they have enlisted through the inspiration of the Lord in this militia of Christ, they ought to be prompt in carrying out this obligation which is so great, being clad for battle day and night.

However, to forestall among us any ambition for such missions or provinces, or any refusal of them, let each one promise never to carry on negotiations with the Roman pontiff about such missions directly or indirectly, but to leave all this care to God and to his vicar and to the superior of the Society. This superior, too, just like the rest, shall also promise not to approach the pontiff in one way or another about being sent on some mission, except with the advice of the Society.

All should likewise vow that in all matters that concern the observance of this Rule they will obey the superior of the Society. The superior, however, should issue the commands which he knows to be opportune for achieving the end set before him by God and by the Society. In his superiorship he should be ever mindful of the kindness, meekness, and charity of Christ and of the pattern set by Peter and Paul, a norm which both he and the council should keep constantly in view. Particularly let them hold in esteem the instruction of children and the unlettered in the Christian doctrine of the Ten Commandments and other similar elementary principles, whatever will seem suitable to them in accordance with the circumstances of persons, places, and times. For it is very necessary that the superior and the council watch this ministry with diligent attention, since the edifice of faith cannot arise among our fellowmen without a foundation, and also since in our own members there is danger that as one becomes more learned he may tend to decline this occupation, less prestigious at first glance, although no other is in fact more fruitful either for the edification of the neighbor or for the exercise by our own members of activities that combine both humility and charity. Assuredly, too, both because of the great value of good order and for the sake of the constant practice of humility (never sufficiently praised), the subjects should always be obliged to obey the superior in all matters pertaining to the Society's Institute, and to recognize and properly venerate Christ as present in him.

From experience we have learned that a life removed as far as possible from all contagion of avarice and as like as possible to evangelical poverty is more gratifying, more undefiled, and more suitable for the edification of our neighbors. We likewise know that our Lord Jesus Christ will supply to his servants who are seeking only the kingdom of God what is necessary for food and clothing. Therefore one and all should vow perpetual poverty, declaring that they cannot, either individually or in common, acquire any civil right to any stable goods or to any annually recurring produce or fixed income for the sustenance or use of the Society. Rather, let them be content with only the use of necessary things, when the owners permit it, and to receive money and the sale price of things given them that they may buy what is necessary for themselves.

They may, however, set up a college or colleges in universities capable of having fixed revenues, annuities, or possessions which are to be applied to the uses and needs of students. The general or the Society retains the full government or superintendency over the aforementioned colleges and students; and this pertains to the choice of the rectors or governors and of the scholastics; the admission, dismissal, reception, and exclusion of the same; the enactment of statutes; the arrangement, instruction, edification, and correction of the scholastics; the manner of supplying them with food, clothing, and all the other necessary materials; and every other kind of government, control, and care. All this should be managed in such a way that neither may the students be able to abuse the aforementioned goods nor may the professed Society be able to convert them to its own uses, but may use them to provide for the needs of the scholastics. At length, after their progress in spirit and learning has become manifest and after sufficient testing, they can be admitted into our Society.

All those who are in holy orders, even though they can acquire no right to benefices and fixed revenues, should nonetheless be obliged to recite the office according to the rite of the Church.

These are the matters which we have been able to explain about our profession in a kind of sketch, which we are now doing that by this written document we may give succinct information, both to those who are asking us about our Rule of Life and also to those who will later on follow us if, God willing, we shall ever have imitators along this path. By experience we have learned that the path has many and great difficulties connected with it, so we have considered it appropriate to prescribe that no one should be received into this Society who has not been carefully tested and shown himself prudent in Christ and noteworthy for either his learning or the purity of his Christian life. Only in this case should he be admitted into the militia of Jesus Christ. May Christ deign to be favorable to these our tender beginnings, to the glory of God the Father, to whom alone be glory and honor forever. Amen.

## II. THE CONSTITUTIONS OF THE SOCIETY OF JESUS

Preliminary Remarks Concerning the Notes Added to the Constitutions

1. Two kinds of notes are added to the text of the Constitutions: some approved by the general congregation and others prepared by the editors of this edition. The first kind is printed in bold black type and so is clearly distinguished from all else; the other kind is printed in ordinary type. Hence, it is apparent that only texts of the first kind are backed by the authority of the general congregation and have a particular effect on the text of the Constitutions. But notes of the second kind have been added after due consideration only for the sake of clarity and convenience.

2. In the notes possessing the authority of the general congregation, the following terms are used:
* Declaratum (clarified or explained) means that a particular place or point of the Constitutions has later been authoritatively interpreted by a general congregation and this interpretation must be regarded as authoritative.
* Obrogatum (modified or changed) means that a particular place or point of the Constitutions has been modified by some disposition either of the universal law of the Church or of some general congregation.
* Abrogatum (abolished or abrogated) means that a particular place or point of the Constitutions has lost its binding force because of some contrary disposition or determination either of the universal law of the Church or of some general congregation.

3. The text itself of the Constitutions is preserved unchanged. However, as indicated above, those passages that have subsequently been authoritatively modified are noted.

## II-A. THE FIRST AND GENERAL EXAMEN

THE FIRST AND GENERAL EXAMEN WHICH SHOULD BE PROPOSED TO ALL WHO ASK FOR ADMISSION INTO THE SOCIETY OF JESUS

### CHAPTER 1: THE INSTITUTE OF THE SOCIETY OF JESUS AND THE DIVERSITY OF ITS MEMBERS

[1] This least congregation, which at its earliest foundation was named the Society of Jesus by the Holy See, was first approved by Pope Paul III, of happy memory, in the year 1540. Later it was confirmed by the same Holy Father in 1543 and by his successor Julius III in 1550. On other occasions too it is mentioned in different briefs and apostolic letters granting it various favors, after highly approving and confirming it.

[2] This Examen is usually proposed to all after they enter the house of the first probation. Nevertheless, if in a particular case discretion should suggest that another and more summary examen be proposed, or that the present text be handed out to be read without asking for replies about its contents, or if the knowledge possessed about some candidate is already sufficient, it would not be necessary to examine him by means of this present text. The examiner, however, ought to discuss this with the superior and follow his opinion. In most instances, it is before the candidates enter the house that they will be examined about certain essential matters, especially those which bar admission.

[3] The end of this Society is to devote itself with God's grace not only to the salvation and perfection of the members own souls, but also with that same grace to labor strenuously in giving aid toward the salvation and perfection of the souls of their neighbors.

[4] To achieve this end more effectively, the three vows of obedience, poverty, and chastity are taken in the Society. Poverty is understood to mean that the Society neither wishes nor is able to possess any fixed revenues for its living expenses or for any other purpose. This holds true not only for the individual members but also for the churches or houses of the professed Society. Neither may the members accept any stipend or alms for Masses, sermons, lectures, the administration of any sacraments, or any other pious work among those which the Society may exercise according to its Institute. In this way it may proceed with greater liberty and greater edification of the neighbor in the divine service.

[5] To achieve this end, the vows are pronounced with the intention of observing them with the greatest perfection, and of observing the constitutions and rules which lead to it.

[6] In addition to the three vows mentioned, the professed Society also makes an explicit vow to the present or future sovereign pontiff as the vicar of Christ our Lord. This is a vow to go anywhere His Holiness will order, whether among the faithful or the infidels, without pleading an excuse and without requesting any expenses for the journey, for the sake of matters pertaining to the worship of God and the good of the Christian religion.

[7] In other respects, for sound reasons and with attention always paid to the greater service of God, in regard to what is exterior the manner of living is ordinary. It does not have any regular penances or austerities which are to be practiced through obligation. But those may be taken up which each one, with the superior's approval, thinks likely to be more helpful for his spiritual progress, as well as those which the superiors have authority to impose upon the members for the same purpose.

[8] Since the end of the learning which is acquired in this Society is to help the souls of its members and their neighbors, it is by this norm that the decision will be made as to what subjects ours ought to learn and how far they ought to advance in them. The selection of each one's grade as well as the entire distribution of employments shall be in the power of the superior or prelate who is to be elected.

[9] The first class of members in the Society consists of those who make profession of four solemn vows. They must be persons whose life is well-known through long and thorough probations, and who are approved in learning, especially in theology. These are the ones who constitute the Society in the most proper sense.

[10] The second class consists of those who are received to become coadjutors in the service of God and to aid the Society in either spiritual or temporal matters. After their experiments and probations these are to take three simple vows of obedience, poverty, and chastity, without taking the fourth vow of obedience to the pope or any other solemn vow. They should be content with their grade, knowing that in the eyes of our Creator and Lord those gain greater merit who with greater charity give help and service to all persons through love of his Divine Majesty.

[11] The third class consists of those who are received to become scholastics, since they seem to have the ability and other qualifications suitable for studies. They are received so that after being educated they may be able to enter the Society either as professed or as coadjutors, as will be judged expedient. To become approved as scholastics of the Society, these too must undergo their experiments and probations and then pronounce the same three simple vows of poverty, chastity, and obedience, along with a promise that they will enter the Society in one of the two manners just mentioned.

[12] The fourth class consists of those who are received indifferently, leaving it to the judgment of the superior whether they should become scholastics or coadjutors.

### CHAPTER 2: SOME CASES ABOUT WHICH A CANDIDATE TO THE SOCIETY SHOULD BE QUESTIONED

[22] Among the cases about which all candidates ought for good reasons to be questioned, the first is this: Has the candidate separated himself from the bosom of Holy Church by denying the faith, or by falling into errors against it in such a way that he has been condemned for some heretical proposition or declared suspect of one by public verdict or by being excommunicated in infamy as a schismatic after he has spurned the authority and guidance of our holy mother the Church?

[27] The third case is that of having taken the habit of a religious institute of friars or clerics, by living under obedience with them for a time, whether profession was made or not; or the case of having been a hermit in monastic garb.

[28] The fourth case is that of being under the bond of consummated matrimony or of legal servitude.

[29] The fifth case is that of suffering from an illness from which the judgment may become obscured and unsound, or that of having a notable disposition to fall into such an illness.

[30] These cases mentioned above are impediments of such a kind that no person with any one of them may be received into the Society. For, in addition to other reasons, it appears to us in our Lord that, because of the ordinary and common weakness of many persons, those who hope to enter the Society in order to be good and faithful sowers in the Lord's field and to preach his divine word will be instruments the more apt for this purpose, the less they are marked by the first and second impediments.

### CHAPTER 3: SOME QUESTIONS TOWARD GAINING A BETTER KNOWLEDGE OF THE CANDIDATE

[34] The candidate should be questioned about his age, his health, and his physical constitution. He should be asked whether he was born of a legitimate marriage or not, and what his family background is.

[36] He should be asked whether he has any debts or civil obligations. If so, how great are they and of what kind? Has he learned any manual trade? Does he know how to read and write?

[44] Has he had or does he have any illnesses, concealed or manifest, and what is their nature? Especially, he should be asked whether he has any stomach trouble or headaches or trouble from any other congenital impediment or defect in some part of his body. This should be not only asked but subjected to examination so far as possible.

[46] What has been his manner or inclination, from his early years up to the present, in matters regarding the welfare of his conscience? First, in regard to prayer, how often has he been accustomed to pray during the day and the night, at what hour, with what bodily posture, what prayers, and with what devotion or spiritual experience?

### CHAPTER 4: SOME OBSERVANCES WITHIN THE SOCIETY WHICH ARE MORE IMPORTANT FOR THE CANDIDATES TO KNOW

[53] They should be told that the intention of the first men who joined themselves together in this Society was that those received into it should be persons already detached from the world and determined to serve God totally, whether in one religious institute or another. Accordingly, all those who seek admission into the Society ought, before they begin to live under obedience in any house or college belonging to it, to distribute all the temporal goods they might have and renounce and dispose of those they might expect to receive.

[61] Everyone who enters the Society, following the counsel of Christ that everyone who has given up father and so forth, must make up his mind to leave his father, mother, brothers, sisters, and whatever he had in the world. He should consider that he must no longer regard his family with natural affection, but only with that spiritual love which looks to God's glory and the salvation of their souls.

[64] Furthermore, before he enters the house or college, or after his entrance, six principal testing experiences are required, in addition to many others which will be treated in part later.

[65] The first experience consists in making the Spiritual Exercises for one month, a little more or less; that is to say, in the person's examining his conscience, thinking over his whole past life and making a general confession, meditating upon his sins, contemplating the events and mysteries of the life, death, resurrection, and ascension of Christ our Lord.

[66] The second experience consists in serving for another month in one or more hospitals, by eating and sleeping there and assisting and waiting upon all the sick and afflicted persons, to bring down his own pride and vanity.

[67] The third experience consists in wandering for another month without money, begging from door to door for the love of God our Lord, so as to grow accustomed to discomforts in food and lodging.

[68] The fourth experience consists in the candidate's employing himself, after entrance into the house, with all diligence and care in various low and humble offices.

[69] The fifth experience is that of explaining the Christian doctrine or a part of it in public to boys and other simple persons.

[70] In a sixth experience the candidate, who now has been tested and found edifying, will proceed further by preaching or hearing confessions, or in both together.